# Storyteller, a generator of interactive ebooks

Storyteller is a tool for the generation of game ebooks that, given

* a set of XHTML templates representing the locations of the game
* a class containing the data and implementing the actions of the game

generates an ePUB containing all the possible situations of the game.
The player then plays the game by following the links.

It was inspired by [the Medusa compiler of Enrico Colombini](http://www.erix.it/medusa.html), which was used to create
his [Locusta Temporis](https://www.amazon.it/Locusta-Temporis-Enrico-Colombini-ebook/dp/B07DZ23VQP) interactive ebook.

Install it by running:

    npm i @eit6609/storyteller

And use it like this:

```js
const Storyteller = require('@eit6609/storyteller');

const options = ...
const storyteller = new Storyteller(options)
const initialTemplateName = ...
const initialState = ...
await storyteller.generate(initialTemplateName, initialState);
```

## Why interactive ebooks?

You can find the details behind the idea in Colombini's
[Interactive Fiction & ebooks: Designing puzzles for digital books](https://www.amazon.it/Interactive-Fiction-ebooks-Designing-italiano-ebook/dp/B07DZ3F71K), and an introduction in
[the slides about Medusa from Lua workshop 2014](http://www.lua.org/wshop14/Colombini.pdf).

With an interactive ebook you don't need an engine to play the game, because the game has been pre-played by
Storyteller. All you need is an ebook reader.

Since there are ebook readers for every device you get the maximum portability.

Of course there are some limitations in the design of the game:

* the actions can be performed only by following links
* you cannot use random generators or unlimited counters
* you must avoid a combinatorial explosion

[Interactive Fiction & ebooks](https://www.amazon.it/Interactive-Fiction-ebooks-Designing-italiano-ebook/dp/B07DZ3F71K)
deals thoroughly with these issues, however I give you some tips & tricks at the end of this document.

There are also some limits for the player:

* the player must only follow the links and cannot navigate the book by freely turning the pages

This limitations notwithstanding, you can create amazing games.

If you try *Locusta Temporis* you won't believe your eyes. And it was created with Medusa, which is functionally
equivalent to Storyteller.

You can find some example ePUBs in the [examples](#examples).

## How does it work?

### The state class

The logic of the game is implemented with a class that contains the state of the game and the methods to access and
manipulate the state.

Let's see an example, that is included in the complete [examples](#examples):

```js
class Hanoi {

    static configure (config) {
        Hanoi.config = config;
    }

    constructor () {
        this.reset();
    }

    reset () {
        this.pegs = [
            new Peg(Hanoi.config.nDiscs),
            new Peg(),
            new Peg()
        ];
    }

    getConfig () {
        return Hanoi.config;
    }

    isFinished () {
        return this.pegs[2].discs.length === Hanoi.config.nDiscs;
    }

    canMove (from, to) {
        from = this.pegs[from];
        to = this.pegs[to];
        return from.discs.length > 0 && (to.discs.length === 0 || to.getTopDisc() > from.getTopDisc());
    }

    move (from, to) {
        this.pegs[to].discs.push(this.pegs[from].discs.pop());
    }

}
```

In this state class, the property `pegs` and the methods `getConfig()`, `canMove()` and `isFinished()` let you access
the state to display information and make decisions in the template.

The methods `reset()` and `move()` are modifiers, and will be used with the `goto()` function, explained later.

### The templates

The pages of the ebook are generated by a set of XHTML templates, one for every location of the game.

After many experiments with the most popular templating engines for Node.js, I have chosen
[Pug](https://pugjs.org/api/getting-started.html) because it gives you enough freedom to call JavaScript code inside
the template. This is vital, but many engines (the very popular [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com) among others)
make the call of methods on a class instance a nightmare.

Of course [EJS](https://ejs.co) gives you *complete* freedom, but I prefer higher level engines like Pug.

I have added **experimental** support for markdown templating by means of my
[Markdown Templates](https://github.com/eit6609/markdown-templates) engine.

Let's see an example of template:

```pug
doctype strict
html(xmlns='http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml', xml:lang='en')
    head
        link(href="style-epub.css", rel="stylesheet", type="text/css")
        title The Tower of Hanoi
    body
        h3 The Tower of Hanoi
        hr
        p!= debug()
        p.first The situation is:
        ul
            li Peg 1: #{state.pegs[0]}
            li Peg 2: #{state.pegs[1]}
            li Peg 3: #{state.pegs[2]}
        if state.isFinished()
            h1 YOU’VE WON!
            br
            p.first Want to #[a(href=goto((state) => state.reset())) play again]?
        else
            p.first Possible moves are:
            ul
                if state.canMove(0, 1)
                    li #[a(href=goto((state) => state.move(0, 1))) 1 ==> 2]
                if state.canMove(0, 2)
                    li #[a(href=goto((state) => state.move(0, 2))) 1 ==> 3]
                if state.canMove(1, 2)
                    li #[a(href=goto((state) => state.move(1, 2))) 2 ==> 3]
                if state.canMove(2, 1)
                    li #[a(href=goto((state) => state.move(2, 1))) 3 ==> 2]
                if state.canMove(2, 0)
                    li #[a(href=goto((state) => state.move(2, 0))) 3 ==> 1]
                if state.canMove(1, 0)
                    li #[a(href=goto((state) => state.move(1, 0))) 2 ==> 1]
            p.first Of course you can also #[a(href=goto((state) => state.reset())) restart the game].
            p.first Or you may want to review the #[a(href=goto('start', (state) => state.reset())) instructions].
        hr
```

As you can see the accessors are used to display data:

```pug
            li Peg 1: #{state.pegs[0]}
```

and to make decisions:

```pug
                if state.canMove(0, 2)
```

The modifiers are used in the links, with the `goto()` function, to perform actions:

```pug
                    li #[a(href=goto((state) => state.move(2, 0))) 3 ==> 1]

            p.first Or you may want to review the #[a(href=goto('start', (state) => state.reset())) instructions].
```

### The generator

#### Following the links

Starting from a template and a state, the generator recursively follows all the links, generating all the possible
pages.

This is done with the `goto()` function, provided by the context of the template.

You can pass `goto()` a template name and/or a function (called *action*) that modifies the state. The action usually
just calls a modifier method on the state.

As the action is optional, it is possible to change only the template (that is, the location) and keep the state as is.

As the template name is optional, it is possible to change only the state without changing the location.

#### Generating the pages

The combination of a template and a state generates a page:

    template + state = page

To keep track of the generated pages, every state instance is reduced to a *hash*, which is a human readable string that
uniquely identifies the state instance.
It's a kind of compact JSON, that can deal also with the new features of ES6, like Maps and Sets, which are not handled
correctly by the functions of the JSON module.

A template name and a state hash uniquely identify a page:

    template name + hash(state) = page key

For debug and learning purposes, you can use the `debug()` function inside a template to show the page key. Because the
hash is human readable, it is a meaningful representation of the state. It can be very useful to understand why the
template engine has generated the page as it is.

## API reference

### The generator class

#### `constructor(options?: object)`

These are the supported options:

* `templatesDir`, string, required: the path of the directory containing the templates
* `outputDir`, string, required: the path of the directory to use for the generated XHTML files. This directory is used
  as input for the [ePUB creator](https://github.com/eit6609/epub-creator), so you can put in this directory any extra
  file (images, stylesheets) that you need in the ePUB.
* `metadata`, object, required, the options for the ePUB creator, with these properties:
    * `title`, string, optional, default `untitled`: the title of the ePUB
    * `author`, string, optional, default no author: the author of the ePUB
    * `language`, string, optional, default `en`: the language of the ePUB
    * `cover`, string, optional, default no cover: a path relative to `outputDir` of an image that will become the cover
      of the ePUB
    * `filename`, string, required: the path of the generated ePUB
* `markdown`, boolean, optional, default `false`: if `false` the template engine is Pug, otherwise it is Markdown
  Templates
* `debug`, boolean, optional, default `false`: if `true` the `debug()` function called in the templates will return the
   page key, otherwise the empty string.

#### `generate(initialTemplateName: string, initialState: object): promise`

It generates the ePUB given:

* `initialTemplateName`:  the path of the initial template file, without the extension, relative to the `templatesDir`
* `initialState`: the initial state instance

It returns a promise with no value.

### The template context

These are the properties of the "locals" of the template engine.

#### `state`

It is the current state instance, that can be used to call its accessors to display data and make decisions.

#### `debug(): string`

If the `debug` option is `true`, this function returns the key of the current page, that is the template name and the
state hash, wrapped in a `<code>` element. Otherwise it returns the empty string. You can place its result wherever you
like in the templates to display the info, and then simply disable it by setting the `debug` option to `false` without
modifying the templates.

#### `goto(templateName?: string, action?: function): string`

The purpose of this function is to ask the generator the URL of the page identified by the template name and the hash of
the state you get by applying the action to a copy of the current state.
The function returns the URL of the requested page, that can be used in the `href` of an `a` to create a link.

The parameters are:

* `templateName`: the path of a template file, without the extension, relative to the `templatesDir`. It defaults to
the current template's name.
* `action`: a function that receives a state as its only parameter and modifies it. It should return a falsy
value unless it wants to replace the received state with a new one: in this case it should return the new state. This is
handy for complex games because it enables you to move through independent stages of the game. More about this later,
in the *Tips & Tricks* section.

With this function you actually trigger the generation of the pages, because, if the requested page does not exist,
the generator creates an empty page and enqueues it for the build, that is the execution of the template with the state
of the page. That execution could find and execute some `goto()` that could trigger the creation of new pages, and so
on.

## Examples

You can generate the example ebooks by moving to the `code` folder and running the `main.js` script:

    node main.js

You can change the debug options to `true` to see who (template + state) generated the pages.

You can inspect the generated XHTML files, they are in the `out` subdirectories.

But if you are lazy you can just download the generated ePUBs.

### Goat, Cabbage & Wolf

A classic puzzle!

There are two scripts:

* `main-xhtml.js`, that uses the Pug (.pug) templates
* `main-markdown.js`, that uses the experimental Markdown Templates (.md) templates

The generated ePUBs should be the same.

You can download the generated ePUB [here](examples/goat-cabbage-wolf/code/goat-cabbage-wolf-xhtml.epub).

### Desert Traversal

A puzzle about managing scarce resources.

You can download the generated ePUB [here](examples/desert/code/desert.epub).

### The Tower of Hanoi

Not much of an adventure game, but I have loved this game when I learned about recursion and I think that it is a very
neat example.

You can download the generated ePUB [here](examples/hanoi/code/hanoi.epub).

## Tips & Tricks

### Keep the state "small"

The golden rule to avoid combinatorial explosion is:

> You must keep the state as empty as possible

Let's see some examples.

#### Be smart

You can implement a combination lock by using a simple boolean:

* `true`: "all digits right so far"
* `false`: "at least one wrong digit"

This way you won't need to handle the exponential number of cases.

For example, you can use this state:

```js
class Safe {
    constructor (combination) {
        this.combination = combination;
        this.ok = true;
        this.index = 0;
    }

    choose (digit) {
        this.ok = String(digit) === this.combination.charAt(this.index);
        this.index++;
    }

    isRight () {
        return this.index === this.combination.length && this.ok;
    }

    isWrong () {
        return this.index === this.combination.length && !this.ok;
    }
}
```

with this template:

```pug
doctype strict
html(xmlns='http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml', xml:lang='en')
    head
        link(href="style-epub.css", rel="stylesheet", type="text/css")
        title Open the Safe
    body
        h3 Open the Safe
        hr
        if state.isRight()
            h1 YOU’VE WON!
        else
            if state.isWrong()
                h1 YOU’VE LOST!
            else
                p.first Choose digit ##{state.index + 1}:
                ul
                    - for (let i = 0; i < state.combination.length; i++)
                        li #[a(href=goto((s) => s.choose(i))) #{i}]
        hr
```

The generated pages will be only *n* (the correct combination) + *n* (all the possible wrong combinations), where *n* is
the length of the combination.

Why? Because what determines the number of pages are the possible values of the properties of the state, and they are
2*n*:

* 2 for `ok`
* *n* for `index`

For the sake of precision, there are only 2*n* - 1 pages, because the state `{index=0,ok=false}` is not used.

#### Consume objects

Almost every adventure game has a basket where the player can put the objects found around.

However, keeping objects in the basket is very expensive, because you'll have 2 ^ *n* possible states if you need to
keep track of *n* objects.

You should prefer objects that get consumed, and drop them as soon as you can.

#### Partition the game

You should partition the game in several independent stages, in order to reset the state when you finish one stage and
enter another.

You should implement the different stages with different state classes, and then exploit the feature of the generator
that uses the new state returned by an action to make the transition from one stage to another.
